.TH MESHFORGE 1 "January 2026" "MeshForge 0.4.6-beta" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
meshforge \- Mesh Network Operations Center for Meshtastic and Reticulum
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B meshforge
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B MeshForge
is a Network Operations Center that bridges Meshtastic and Reticulum (RNS) mesh networks. It provides unified monitoring, configuration, and AI-powered diagnostics for LoRa mesh networks.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B meshforge
Launch the interface wizard (auto-detects best UI)
.TP
.B meshforge-gtk
Launch GTK4 desktop interface
.TP
.B meshforge-web
Launch web dashboard (default: http://localhost:8880)
.TP
.B meshforge-cli
Launch rich CLI interface
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version number and exit
.SH INTERFACES
.TP
.B TUI (Terminal User Interface)
Best for SSH and headless systems. Uses whiptail/dialog for raspi-config style menus.
.TP
.B GTK4 Desktop
Full graphical interface with panels for gateway, nodes, maps, and configuration.
.TP
.B Web Dashboard
Browser-based interface accessible at http://localhost:8880. Supports authentication.
.TP
.B Standalone
Zero-dependency mode for minimal installations.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Gateway Bridge
Bidirectional message routing between Meshtastic and Reticulum networks.
.TP
.B AI Diagnostics
Intelligent symptom analysis with rule-based (standalone) or Claude-powered (PRO) diagnostics.
.TP
.B RF Tools
Free space path loss, Fresnel zone, link budget calculations.
.TP
.B Coverage Maps
Generate interactive HTML maps with node positions and coverage estimation.
.TP
.B Service Management
Start, stop, restart meshtasticd with live log viewing.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/meshforge/gateway.json
User gateway configuration
.TP
.I /etc/meshtasticd/config.d/
Active hardware configurations
.TP
.I /etc/meshtasticd/available.d/
Available hardware templates
.TP
.I /opt/meshforge/
Installation directory (when installed via install.sh)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Set to enable PRO mode with Claude AI diagnostics
.TP
.B SUDO_USER
Used to determine real user home directory when running with sudo
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Launch with auto-detection:
.B sudo meshforge
.TP
Start web dashboard on all interfaces:
.B sudo python3 src/main_web.py --host 0.0.0.0
.TP
Run as systemd service:
.B sudo systemctl enable meshforge
.B sudo systemctl start meshforge
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Nursedude/meshforge/issues
.SH AUTHOR
WH6GXZ (Nursedude)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR meshtastic (1),
.BR rnsd (1)
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0
